# Table of Contents

Contributions to the project are very welcome! Please submit pull requests with any changes (preferably with tests).

<!-- TocDown Begin -->
 * [Documentation](#documentation)
 * [IDE Config and Code Style](#ide-config-and-code-style)
   * [Eclipse Setup](#eclipse-setup)
   * [IDEA Setup](#idea-setup)
 * [Code Recommendations](#code-recommendations)
   * [Logging](#logging)
   * [Exceptions](#exceptions)
   * [Gradle Test Runner](#gradle-test-runner)
 * [Building](#building)
   * [Running Tests](#running-tests)
   * [Skipping Tests](#skipping-tests)
 * [Releasing](#releasing)
   * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
   * [Release command](#release-command)
   * [Publishing artifacts locally](#publishing-artifacts-locally)
   * [Releasing SNAPSHOT version](#releasing-snapshot-version)
<!-- TocDown End -->


### Documentation

The documentation for the project can be found [here](https://project-ncl.github.io/gradle-manipulator/). In order to edit the website checkout the `gh-pages` branch. It is possible to use Jekyll (https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages) to preview the changes. Jekyll can be run with `jekyll serve --watch -V`. This README's table of contents are generated by [tocdown](https://github.com/dohliam/tocdown) using the following command line:

    ruby .../tocdown/toc.rb -b -r -t -d 3 -s -m <markdown-file>

### IDE Config and Code Style

This project has a strictly enforced code style. Code formatting is done by the Eclipse code formatter, using the config files from https://github.com/project-ncl/ide-config/. By default, when you run `./gradlew build` the code will be formatted automatically.

#### IDEA Setup

Follow instructions in https://github.com/project-ncl/ide-config/.

### Code Recommendations

#### Logging

The tooling overrides the logging to support integration into ProjectNCL. Therefore, to retrieve a standard Gradle logger instance, do:

```java
     org.gradle.api.logging.Logger logger = org.jboss.gm.common.logging.GMLogger.getLogger(getClass());
```
The Gradle logger interface extends `org.slf4j.Logger`. It is recommended to use `info` and `debug` categories as appropriate.

During tests, it may be useful to retrieve logging output. The following rule will capture output for examination:
``
    @Rule
    public final SystemOutRule systemOutRule = new SystemOutRule().enableLog().muteForSuccessfulTests();
``
Due to how the Gradle logging system initialises outside of the TestKit, the unit tests may not output logging as the Gradle logging defaults to LIFECYCLE level by default. Therefore, a new Logging rule has been provided which can configure the logging level on a per test basis.
```
    @Rule
    public final LoggingRule loggingRule = new LoggingRule(LogLevel.INFO);
```

#### Exceptions

* Internal code may use checked exceptions such as `ManipulationException`.
* All external invocation points cannot throw a checked exception, so they must use an unchecked exception (e.g., `ManipulationUncheckedException`).
* The `org.gradle.api.InvalidUserDataException` can be used for configuration errors.
* Avoid throwing `RuntimeException` ; rather, use a more explicit exception.

#### Gradle Test Runner

The [test runner](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/test_kit.html) may be used for functional testing. Note that it is
recommended that `withDebug(false)` is **only** used when e.g. fork is needed to change the JVM in use. This is because debug runs
in-process which can lead to some strange side effects but is also required for coverage tracking.

To pass specific property / environment variables through the following pattern should be followed (which will also work when
using single-test debugging):
```java
    @Rule
    public final TestRule restoreSystemProperties = new RestoreSystemProperties();

......
        System.setProperty("AProxDeployUrl", "file://" + publishDirectory.toString());

        final BuildResult buildResult = TestUtils.createGradleRunner ()
                .withProjectDir(simpleProjectRoot)
                .withArguments("--info", "publish")
                .build();
     ....
```
Note that instead of calling `GradleRunner.create` the `TestUtils` class is used instead which passes on the extra system
properties.

### Building

To build GME and run all tests, use

```
gradle clean build
```

If you also wish to publish the artifacts to you local maven repository, replace `build` with `publishToMavenLocal`

```
gradle clean publishToMavenLocal
```

Note: To use a development version of GME locally on another project one **must** use publishToMavenLocal otherwise
the alignment plugin won't be correctly resolved.

#### Running Tests

Normally, Gradle will only run tests if the code has changed. However, you may wish to force all tests to run using

```
gradle cleanTest test
```

Similarly, you can force all functional tests to run using

```
gradle cleanFunctionalTest functionalTest
```

#### Skipping Tests

If you wish to build excluding all tests and functional tests, use

```
gradle clean publishToMavenLocal -x test -x functionalTest
```

You may run only certain tests (e.g., the tests in a class named `TestClass`) using

```
gradle test --tests TestClass
```

### Releasing

The project has been configured to release both plugins to the Gradle Portal and to release to Maven Central.

<!-- Using diff syntax to highlight the warning in red -->
```diff
- Before running the release notify the team to lock down the repository until the release is finished. -
```

It uses the [gradle-release](https://github.com/researchgate/gradle-release) plugin to simulate a similar process to the Maven
release plugin - it can increment the version, add tags, push the changes, etc. It supplies a hook task (`afterReleaseBuild`) that
can be used to ensure that tasks after the release version has been changed - we have configured it as follows:

```
tasks.afterReleaseBuild {
    dependsOn(":analyzer:publish", ":manipulation:publish",
              ":analyzer:publishPlugins", ":manipulation:publishPlugins") }
```

The `publish` pushes to Sonatype staging while the `publishPlugins` pushes to the Gradle Plugin Portal. The build script will also
modify `README.md` to ensure it points to the correct version.

#### Prerequisites

* Run the release using Gradle 6.8.3
* Sign up for a Gradle account (see details [here](https://guides.gradle.org/publishing-plugins-to-gradle-plugin-portal/#create_an_account_on_the_gradle_plugin_portal))
* Make sure you can push changes to Maven Central
* Create or update the required `$HOME/.gradle/gradle.properties` locally with data from the API key (which can be found in your gradle account)

It should look something like this:

```
gradle.publish.key=key
gradle.publish.secret=secret
```

* Update `$HOME/.gradle/gradle.properties` to contain the necessary configuration for publishing to Maven Central. Something like:

```
signing.gnupg.keyName=someKey
signing.passphrase=pass
```

Note: By default the signing is configured to use GPG. It will automatically look for the `gpg2` executable. On Fedora systems this is normally a symbolic link, e.g.,
```
    /usr/bin/gpg*
    /usr/bin/gpg2 -> gpg*
```
If this does not exist on your system then you may need to add a line like `signing.gnupg.executable=gpg` to the properties file.

<br>

The configuration will also read your `$HOME/.m2/settings.xml` for a username/password associated with `sonatype-nexus-staging`.


See [this](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/signing_plugin.html) for more details

#### Release command

The plugins can be released using the following command (from the main branch of the repository):

    # Optional command: ./gradlew clean

    ./gradlew --info publishToCentral -Drelease=true

The command will both publish the plugin to the Gradle Plugin Portal and to Maven Central.

Note: It is **very** important to execute this exact command when releasing. Adding other tasks (e.g., `clean`) can cause the release to fail, or even worse leave the release in an inconsistent state. If `clean` is needed, run it separately before the main command. If a release needs to be rolled back the following must be checked and cleaned up:

* Gradle Plugins Portal (https://plugins.gradle.org/)
* Sonatype Staging (https://oss.sonatype.org/#stagingRepositories)
* Local and remote tags
* Local and remote GIT commits for release

Note: It may be necessary to add the following to your `$HOME/.gradle/gradle.properties` to prevent timeouts:

    systemProp.org.gradle.internal.http.connectionTimeout=600000
    systemProp.org.gradle.internal.http.socketTimeout=600000
    systemProp.http.socketTimeout=600000
    systemProp.http.connectionTimeout=600000

#### Publishing artifacts locally

Both plugins can be published to maven local to make it easier to consume them in projects. The command to do so is:

    ./gradlew publishToMavenLocal

To change the version that will be deployed just add `-Pversion=whatever`.

#### Releasing SNAPSHOT version

The artifacts can be pushed to the Sonatype snapshot repository (e.g., https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/jboss/gm/analyzer/analyzer/) with the following command:

    gradle publishAllPublicationsToSonatype-nexus-snapshotsRepository

Note that your username/password in `$HOME/.m2/settings.xml` for Sonatype must be setup.
